#summary Future Development, A Very Good Place to Finish

!OpenBook 3.1 represents the conclusion of my !OpenBook development work. I will continue to support !OpenBook via the support <a href="http://code.google.com/p/!OpenBook4!WordPress/">wiki</a>; in fact a small update will be released soon. However, I am not planning future development. I have spent many volunteer hours developing it to its current state and consider it complete. 

This is not to say that I have not thought of other enhancements:

<strong>Searching for Books</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Search for books from multiple data sources, not just Open Library (see next)</li>
	<li>Search will show book editions (FRBR) and related ISBNs (xISBN)</li>
	<li>If a book is missing, offer a link to add it to the source (where possible)</li>
</ul>

<strong>Search Multiple Book Data Sources</strong>
<ul>
	<li><a href="http://bookcoverarchive.com/">Book Cover Archive</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.programmableweb.com/api/bookworm-epub-reader">Bookworm ePub Reader API</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.programmableweb.com/api/isbn-db">ISBN db API</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.librarything.com/wiki/index.php/LibraryThing_JSON_Books_API">LibraryThing</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://dltj.org/article/oclc-worldcat-basic-api/">WorldCat</a></li>
	<li>Wikipedia, perhaps using <a href="http://dbpedia.org/About">DBpedia</a></li>
</ul>

<strong>Integrate other Open Source Project Features and Mashups</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Generate COinS using a <a href="http://generator.ocoins.info/">generator</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://libx.org/">LibX</a></li>
	<li>Find a source for publisher data</li>
	<li>Display standard reference formats, e.g, APA. Take advantage of existing tools, e.g, <a href="http://drupal.org/project/biblio">Drupal's Bibliography Module</a>, <a href="http://xbiblio.sourceforge.net/citeproc/">CiteProc</a>, Zotero.</li>
</ul>

<strong>!OpenBook Templates</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Let users add any number of templates</li>
	<li>Users can identify templates by custom tags</li>
	<li>Show a list of template elements that users can drag and drop into templates, rather than typing them in</li>
	<li>The long promised, never delivered XHTML compliance. A separate stylesheet.</li>
</ul>

<strong>!OpenBook Shelf, !OpenBook Theme</strong>
<ul>
	<li>A book shelf in your !WordPress sidebar or on a separate page, for all your !OpenBook instances. It is begging to be developed. Keep all your !OpenBook instances in your !WordPress database and then show the collection of them.</li>
	<li>There is an !OpenBook !WordPress theme that has nothing to do with my plugin. Many !WordPress bloggers love to blog about books. Wouldn't it be nice to have a full theme with the plugin, the bookshelf, and many other book-related functions.</li>
</ul>

<strong>Environment</strong>
<ul>
	<li>!OpenBook has been coded for internationalization (other languages) but the translations have not yet been collected.</li>
	<li>!OpenBook has not been tested in !WordPress MU.</li>
</ul>

The list is long enough to warn me away. If there was strong enough interest for a consulting project, I would consider it. Or, if you are interested in taking over development of this free and open source project, I would facilitate a transition. 

Thank you for the strong interest in !OpenBook, going on three years now. Software is never finished, merely abandoned.