#summary A very good place to start

= !OpenBook !WordPress Plugin =

If you know a book's ISBN you can use !OpenBook to replace it with it with a book cover image and other book data from Open Library. It also adds links to popular book sites, such as !WorldCat, !LibraryThing, and !GoogleBooks. You insert the ISBN into an OpenBook shortcode in a WordPress post, e.g., e.g., {{{[openbook booknumber="1234"]}}} or by clicking the !OpenBook button on the Visual Editor menu.

Users have complete control over the content and styling of the display through templates. Librarians can configure !OpenBook with an OpenURL resolver to point to their library's records.

=== Introduction ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/openbookfeatures">!OpenBook Features</a></li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/insertbooknumbers">Two ways to insert book numbers</a></li>

</ul>

=== Using Templates ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/templateelements">Template Elements</a></li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/help_template">Help with the Template Display Elements</a></li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/template_samples">Custom Template Examples</a></li>
</ul>

=== !OpenBook for Libraries ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/libraries">!OpenBook for Libraries</a></li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/simpleopenurlresolver">How to Build a Simple OpenURL Resolver</a></li>
</ul>

=== Other Uses ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/openbookzotero">How to use !OpenBook with Zotero, a Research Tool</a></li>
</ul>

=== Published Articles ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/105">Article in !Code4Lib, 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://openbook4wordpress.googlecode.com/files/openbookniso.pdf">Article in NISO, 2009</a></li>
</ul>

=== Source Code ===

The !WordPress server is the official distribution point for <a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/openbook-book-data/">downloading</a> the current plugin. 

=== Licensing and Copyright ===

<ul>
<li>!OpenBook is free and open source software, as per the GPL License that comes with the plugin.</li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/legal">Legal Note about Using Book Covers</a></li>
</ul>

=== Troubleshooting ===

!OpenBook tests technical requirements when the plugin is activated, but you may find additional information <a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/pluginrequirements">here</a>.

Search for a bug or issue <a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/issues/list">here</a>. If you don't find it, please don't hesitate to report it.

=== Contact ===

You can contact me, John, at openbook@johnmiedema.ca. My website: http://johnmiedema.ca.