#summary A list of features in OpenBook 2.0.
#labels openbook,version2.0

=OPENBOOK 2.0 FEATURES=

=== ACTIVATION ===
Detects the requirements for the JSON library and cURL. Provides user message if there is a problem, and prevents activation.

=== SHORTCODES ===
Insert an !OpenBook shortcode in any !WordPress post, page or widget. E.g., {{{[openbook booknumber="0460871110"]}}} where "0460871110" is an ISBN number or an Open Library key, e.g, "/b/OL1481772M". If you used !OpenBook a year ago, the old format still works, e.g., {{{[openbook]booknumber="0460871110"[/openbook]}}}.

=== INLINE PARAMETERS ===
Other than booknumber, there are three parameters than may be used inline with the shortcode to override defaults
  # {{{[openbook booknumber="0875743455" bookversion="2"]}}} default="1"
  # {{{[openbook booknumber="0875743455" template="2"]}}} default="1"
  # {{{[openbook booknumber="0875743455" publisherurl="http://www.publisher.com"]}}} default=""

=== LINK SET ===
By default, !OpenBook provides links to Open Library, !LibraryThing, !GoogleBooks and !BookFinder. An additional 'Read online' link is provided if Open Library has a scanned copy of the book.
  * If the booknumber is an ISBN, that value is used for the links
  * If the booknumber is an Open Library key, !OpenBook looks up the ISBN in Open Library
  * If Open Library does not have an ISBN, !OpenBook uses the book title and author in the links

=== OPTIONS PANEL ===
The panel is found under Settings|OpenBook. When you activated !OpenBook, default settings were saved to your MySQL database. You can safely modify and save changes. If you run into problems, click the 'Reset to Installation Values' button. If you deactivate !OpenBook, your custom settings will be kept in the database for later reactivation.

=== TEMPLATES ===
The templates have default text, HTML and !OpenBook display elements. You can stick with the default templates if you like. To use templates number "2" or "3", set the template number inline (see section on Inline Parameters). In the templates, you can put any text or HTML that you like. See "templatehelp.htm" for more information.

=== FIND IN A LIBRARY ===
You can change the name of the 'Find in a Library' link here. By default, !OpenBook points this link to the !WorldCat record. If your library has an OpenURL resolver, you can point !OpenBook to your library records by configuring the resolver here.

=== OTHER OPTIONS ===
By default, !OpenBook embeds COinS, invisible bibliographic data for detection by other applications by Zotero. You have the option to turn this off, e.g, if you are embedding COinS in another way. Additional COinS elements have been added.

=== SYSTEM ===
By default, !OpenBook points to Open Library on the open web. You can set OpenBook to point to your local installation. Note: this functionality has not yet been tested.

If your browser uses a proxy to get to the web, you may need to set your proxy and port here. You can also set the timeout for the call to Open Library.

Show Error Details. Off by default. Useful when diagnosing problems.

=== TECHNICAL ===
  * Code libraries available for reuse in non-WordPress environments, e.g., Drupal.
  * The default HTML displayed by OpenBook is XHTML compliant.
  * The display appears to work well in many browsers.