#summary Requirements for using OpenBook WordPress plugin

<strong>!OpenBook is a !WordPress plugin.</strong> You need to have your own !WordPress installation, not the free !WordPress server which does not support custom plugins.

<strong>Your server must support at least PHP 5.0.</strong> If you are getting an "unexpected {" error when you activate !OpenBook, it is because you have an earlier version of PHP. Note: my server was set to PHP4, but upgrading to PHP5 was a <a href="http://support.netfirms.com/article.php?id=713">simple switch</a>. 

!OpenBook uses the JSON library. This comes with PHP 5.2, but !OpenBook also has a custom JSON library for PHP 5.0 users (e.g., Redhat servers).

!OpenBook uses PHPs cURL library. It has been <a href="http://curl.haxx.se/docs/history.html">available since PHP 4.0.2</a>, but your system administrator may have this package disabled. Here is a <a href="http://www.wallpaperama.com/forums/how-to-find-out-if-php-is-compiled-with-curl-extension-installed-enabled-t1576.html">simple test</a> for cURL. If it is not enabled, your administrator may wish to consult the <a href="http://ca.php.net/manual/en/curl.setup.php">PHP installation and configuration notes</a>.

<strong>Troubleshooting Requirements.</strong> If you are using !OpenBook and nothing is happening, e.g., blank post, it is likely that a PHP error is occuring due to a missing requirement, but that !WordPress is suppressing the error. For troubleshooting, enable error reporting. See this <a href="http://forums.westhost.com/showthread.php?t=10186">thread</a>.

<strong>Troubleshooting Conflicts</strong> If you using !OpenBook and getting strange formatting results, it is possible that your theme or other plugins have a conflict with !OpenBook. Test switching your theme and disabling other plugins, enabling them one at a time. 

