#summary A very good place to start

= !OpenBook !WordPress Plugin =

!OpenBook picks up a book number you specify (e.g., ISBN) and replaces it with a book cover image, title, author, publisher, and other book data from Open Library. It also adds links to popular book sites, such as !WorldCat, !LibraryThing, and !GoogleBooks. You insert the ISBN into an !OpenBook shortcode in a !WordPress post, e.g., e.g., {{{[openbook booknumber="1234"]}}} or by clicking the !OpenBook button on the Visual Editor menu.

=== Features ===

!OpenBook provides two methods of loading book data. The default method inserts a tidy shortcode into your post, and fetches the data live from Open Library when a visitor views your page. The HTML method inserts longer, formatted HTML in your post; when a visitor views your page no Open Library API call is required (only the cover images are loaded remotely). <a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/insertbooknumbers">Two ways to insert book numbers</a>

!OpenBook provides templates to give users complete control over the content and styling of the display. !OpenBook comes with five templates with default display elements. Users can modify the templates with different display elements, custom text and images.

Librarians can link from their !WordPress posts directly to book entries in their library catalogues by configuring !OpenBook with an OpenURL resolver.

=== Using Templates ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/templateelements">Template Elements</a></li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/template_samples">Custom Template Examples</a></li>
</ul>

=== !OpenBook for Libraries ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/libraries">!OpenBook for Libraries</a></li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/simpleopenurlresolver">How to Build a Simple OpenURL Resolver</a></li>
</ul>

=== Other Uses ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/openbookzotero">How to use !OpenBook with Zotero, a Research Tool</a></li>
</ul>

=== Published Articles ===

<ul>
<li><a href="http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/105">Article in !Code4Lib, 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://openbook4wordpress.googlecode.com/files/openbookniso.pdf">Article in NISO, 2009</a></li>
</ul>

=== Source Code ===

The !WordPress server is the official distribution point for <a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/openbook-book-data/">downloading</a> the current plugin. 

=== Licensing and Copyright ===

<ul>
<li>!OpenBook is free and open source software, as per the GPL License that comes with the plugin.</li>
<li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/legal">Legal Note about Using Book Covers</a></li>
</ul>

=== Troubleshooting ===

!OpenBook tests technical requirements when the plugin is activated, but you may find additional requirement information <a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/pluginrequirements">here</a>, and additional troubleshooting tips <a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/wiki/troubleshooting">here</a>.

Search for a bug or issue <a href="http://code.google.com/p/openbook4wordpress/issues/list">here</a>. If you don't find it, please don't hesitate to report it.

=== Contact ===

Please use this wiki and the <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/openbook4wordpress?pli=1">discussion list</a> for any technical discussion and questions. Thanks.